Viper's only strike at humans to protect
themselves but when they're looking for
food it's a different story
venom isn't a long-range weapon getting
close enough to take a shot requires
more sophisticated tactics this is a
timber rattlesnake from the Appalachian
Mountains in eastern USA as the forest
slips into Twilight the hunter heads
into the woods
the first step in the Vipers hunting
strategy is choosing the perfect
backdrop now
it's virtually invisible to other
animals but it can still see them
thanks to these extraordinary pits below
the nostrils which give the pit vipers
their name they pick up infrared light
produced by any living thing it's like
being able to see in the dark
this image comes from a camera developed
for military use the Rattlers heat
sensing equipment is 30 times more
powerful
- the Viper a warm rat shines like a
beacon in the night the rats won't see
the snake unless it moves whereas the
Viper is thought to use both eyesight
and heat vision in a single view
it seems the dice are well and truly
loaded
these cutting-edge fangs have special
hinges and flick open at the last
split-second like tiny switch blades and
because they fold back down when not in
use they can be extra long for deeper
penetration the venom injection flushes
the rat skin with blood so it glows even
brighter even if it disappears from view
it leaves a telltale trail of heat
behind and gives itself away with every
footstep venom also makes it dribble
urine loading it with a powerful scent
so when the trail goes cold the Viper
simply switches tactics and smells its
way in fact its sense of smell is better
than a bloodhounds the forked tongue
tastes the air in stereo picking up
odors for analysis inside the mouth each
flick of the tongue creates a scented
snapshot with the rat still in the frame
even when the rat is dead its trail of
heat and scent lingers on so thanks to
its tracking expertise the Viper can
cash in on its investment of venom